Chapter One - The Way We Work Is Broken

Narrative: The FBI were using 80's computers and paper, which was part of what led to September 11 not being picked up.
They spend $451 million on a ten year digital system that utterly failed in 2010, and was never delivered.
But Jeff Johnson, the new Assistant Director at the IT engineering division, cancelled all the contracts, brought it all in house,
and used Agile methodologies to create the new system in 18 months with just $20 million. Hurrah!

The Point: Scrum is a framework based of the principles of the Agile project environments.
Sutherland was part of the team of developers in 2001 that came up with the 'Agile Manifesto'
Scrum is a way of implementing that.
Key to the idea, in the chapter specifically, is the concept of iteration, or 'Inspect and Adjust'.
The old project strategy was the 'Waterfall process', where every step was planned out and executed in order, to a future delivery date.
However, things would go wrong, costs would blow out unexpectedly, and often nothing would get done.
By regularly inspecting and adapting, you pick things up your doing wrong and change them quickly.
Work in small 'sprints' (eg 2 weeks) where you finish a small part of the project, and show it to the client.
Then get feedback, and repeat.
The world is changing super fast, and this is the only way we can work now, otherwise we'll be outdated before release.
Inspires a lot of the Silicon Valley ideals - delivering a minimum viable product, lean startups, failing fast etc.

Take-aways (written by Sutherland):
 - Plans are useful, blindly following plans is Stupid
  (ie, constantly question if you're doing something the best way and change if you ain't)
 - Inspect and Adapt
 - Change or Die
  (If you don't, a competitor or disruptor will mess you up!
 - Fail fast so you can fix early


C2

Narrative: Sutherland's career, and how he came to build management frameworks.
Long story short - he started in the air force, flew in Vietnam, got a stats degree and went into biometrics research,
where he got his PhD. When his funding ran out he worked developing systems for ATMs, then into software development, where
he eventually developed Scrum.

In Vietnam he was trained to OODA - Observe, Orient, Decide, Act - as a framework to react in
life of death situations. When he worked as a researcher he identified complex organisms constantly moving from one stable state to
another, the key question being whether it was a positive or negative move. He then identifies that organisations are complex
organisms too. He worked with ATM's, but waterfall systems were making working people harder, but not smarter,
and they still weren't delivering their product or generating revenue. Introduced to some AI guys, their robotsdidn't have
a big central brain, but each of six legs had a separate processor.
They didn't rely on databases, but learnt the room fresh using simple rules and constant feedback.

This, along with study of key insights came from Japanese business built scrum.
Japanese ethos of 'continuous improvement', actually introduced by an American (W. Edwards Deming) after ww2 but fitted nicely in with the Japanese culture
It says, don't just get better once, get better continuously. Deming's PDCA cycle - Plan, Do, Check, Act was key.
Plan and Do are intuitive, Check is to analyse what worked and what didn't, and Act is to make changes based on the checks.
This is how Toyota rose to worldwide prominence, and it's how lean manufacturing and scrum development is done.
The reason it matters so much is because software development was a broken model, things
were late and costs blew out regularly, and business cycles were increasing so the needs of a contract
would change by the time it finished.
Scrum is the customer responsive system that suits a world with that kind of fast change, because
new requirements are communicated and incorporated as soon as they appear.

Take-aways (written by Sutherland):
 - Hesitation is Death. Observe, Orient, Decide, Act.
 - Look outwards for answer, learn constantly from the environment.
 - Great Teams Are: cross-functional, autonomous and empowered, with a transcendent purpose.
 - Don't Guess: Plan. Do. Check. Act. The repeat all that, then you get continuous improvement.
 - Shu Ha Ri. Learn the rules, master them and make innovations. Then... Live The Rules!!!

 C3
 Looking at high performing individuals, their speed varies by around 10 times, the slowest vs the fastest at the same quality of work.
 But teams, with the same quality work, differ in time lines by about 2000 - the fast team, 1 week, the slow teams 2000 weeks.
 So focus on the teams, where real gains can be made with a different way of working (using a bit of the 80/20 rule here)
